---
date: "2026-02-19T14:07:01+05:30"
draft: false
type: docs
weight: 327
title: "sys.stack_fkey"
---
## sys.stack_fkey()
### Purpose
`sys.stack_fkey()` stacks function keys so that the program acts as if the user entered those keys in the same order that they were stacked.

### Usage
```c
ret = sys.stack_fkey(fkey1 [,fkey2 [..., [fkey16]] ... ]);
```

### Arguments
fkey1 - fkey16 - Up to 16 alpha args  
Each arg should be a valid name from the `sys.spc_char` file.  
(i.e. "cancel","accept","user1", "user2", etc.)  

fkey1 is mandatory and fkey2 through fkey16 are optional.

### Returns
0 - Normal

There are no error returns.

### Where Used
`sys.stack_fkey()` can be called from anywhere. Of course, it has no affect until input is needed from the user.

### Example
The following could be used by a scrolling program if it wanted to automatically set add mode if there were no records displayed.  

```c
if (sys.dr_count() == 0)
    sys.stack_fkey("add");
```

### Description
`sys.stack_fkey()` allows a program to stack function keys as input. It is similar to `sys.stack_input()`, but only valid function key names can be used, and no `<CR>` is automatically generated by 4C. A stacked function key acts as if the user entered that key. The 4C function key help programs (`sys.spchelp` and `sys.spcshelp`) use this feature when you hit the accept key, or any of the displayed keys. This is not really a stack, it is a FirstIn FirstOut list. So successive stack fkey calls are added to the end of the list rather than the head of the list. The arguments passed to `sys.stack_fkey()` are also processed in the same order. This can be used when you want to try to anticipate a users response and save keystrokes. Calls to `sys.stack_fkey()` and `sys.stack_input()` can be intermixed with predictable results.

### Bugs / Features / Comments
There is no error return, a bad key name is just ignored.

### See Also
- sys.stack_input()
